Software Engineering is the systematic way of creating, designing, developing and implementing  software applications for a certain purpose.

Software engineering include the entire software development process, from the first concept to deployment and ongoing maintenance. It's not just about writing code (programming), but also planning, design, testing, and ensuring the software is well-structured and maintainable. It follows methodologies for building high quality softwares. The methodologies help in creating a clear roadmap fir each development stage. Traditional Programming focuses more on writing a code for a specific functionality.It somehow focuses more on the code to work without a concern of how will it be maintained or updtaed in the long run. SDL is a structured framework that defines steps in creating a software. It breaks down every step of development process in details, each with specific goals and deliverables.

Waterfall model is a sequential stage which strictly follows linear order. Each face must be completed before moving to the next. It requires upfront gathering and proper planning before the cycle starts. Its good for well defined projects that are unlikely to change more often. Agile model is iterative and breaks down the development process into short cycles.It involves user feedback at every step. Very suitable for huge complex projects that require feedback in getting to the final project. Adjustments can easily be made with reference to the received feedback at every sprint.

Development style for agile is iterative and incremental while for waterfall is sequential and linear. Testing in agile is intergrated throughout the development cycle while is performed after specific milestones in waterfall. Agile promotes faster delivery while waterfall can be very slow. There is high risk with waterfall than it is with agile, continuous feedback in agile leads to early detection of issues. Agile is fit for complex projects and where feedback is very important. Waterfall is suitable for well defined projects with stable requirements.

Requirements Engineering is the process that ensures the software developed meets users requirements. It requires a good understanding of documentation and requirements provided.It is the founadtion of a successful software development life cycle. By thoroughly analyzing and validating requirements, it reduces the risk of developing a software that doesnt meet requirements.a better understanding of what is needed creates for better decision making. Clear description of requirements helps everyone invilved in the development to understand the goaland ensure achievement.

